In 1987, the International Space University was founded to develop and implement
international space-related curriculum. This university would identify,
assemble, and educate a new generation of young leaders from around the world.
By uniting these students in an intensive program of study and research, ISU
would foster long-lasting ties between these future heads of industry,
government, and academia, creating an international network which would help
assure cooperation in the opening of space. In the summer of 1988, that mission
was accomplished and the International Space University was born. For the first
summer session of the International Space University, 104 of the world's top
graduate level students from 21 nations came together on the campus of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Having undergone a rigorous selection
program, these students participated in an experience that would change their
lives and quite possibly the world forever. So what we are going to talk about
and what you are going to listen to and what you are going to take part in in
the next 10 weeks is much more important than just a learning experience. It is
a creative experience. You are creating your future. There is nothing more
important because in your future lies the history and the future of the human
species. The ISU class of 88 is going to be a major component in the space
leadership of the world in the future. These are impressive young professionals
with a formidable list of credentials to their credit. They are gifted with
enormous intelligence and unbelievable resources of energy. For over 60 days and
nights these students were immersed in one of the most rigorous and intensive
space education programs ever organized. From the world's space powers to those
nations only now on the threshold of utilizing space technology, ISU has
something to offer everyone. The whole process involves, or the training
involves, a look at all communication technologies and using satellites for
remote sensing, monitoring the growth of forests or the spread of forests all
over the place, and, in my country, this is one of the technologies we require,
and we'll use this to implement these facilities. I had a few ideas about space
and what does space means, but when I came here to ISU, and after the completion
of this program, two-month intensive program, I can say that I learned a lot
during this program. Including 240 hours of lectures and instruction by leading
experts from 14 nations, students are exposed to the latest ideas in all fields
of space development, exploration, technology, and administration. Stressing a
multidisciplinary approach to education, ISU has developed courses in the
following eight departments of space studies. Architecture, business and
management, engineering, life sciences, policy and law, resources and
manufacturing, satellite applications, physical sciences. The quality of the
lectures we've had here has been just superb. We've had experts in space
business. For example, the Chief Designer of the Shuttle, Sy Rubenstein has
come in. He is now President of Brockwell Space Transportation Systems, and he
has talked to us about what it means to be involved in space business. What
better perspective could you have? We met the best in the field. I mean
professor wise and lecturer wise. And we saw insight or view that we never could
see it from school or from anywhere else. Normally confined to one or two areas
of specialization, ISU students are taught the importance of broad-based
knowledge, developing the skills necessary to effectively work in a multi
-disciplinary environment. To accomplish this goal, each session students work
on a simulation of a major space project. During the 1988 session, they spent
over 280 hours working with interdisciplinary teams, which planned and designed
a viable lunar base for research and industry. Hands-on experiments such as this
one are vital to giving students and faculty a feel for the real problems that
are involved in space operations. And no student who has operated the system
will be able have any doubts about whether or not it's possible to control
machinery in real time on the moon. The multidisciplinary approach that this
program took has been a real eye opener. ISU students represent a global network
of expertise and talent, a benefit which is of extreme importance in this global
economy. What's important is experience of getting to know other people, getting
a current base, you know the people when you have to talk to them in the future,
and everything's going to be so much easier when you can negotiate with friends
than with people you've never met before. So it needs a lot of international
collaboration in the future to establish a space station or a lunar base. What I
will go away with is a base of contacts all over the world, of people who are my
age or approximately my age who have my motivation are interested in the things
that I'm interested in. And that is an incredible bomb to have. ISU is going to
be the training ground for those savvy individuals who know how to operate in
this world marketplace and know how to cut across the boundaries of governments
and corporations to pull together projects and programs and make them work. ISU
is looking to the future, and that future is bright. After four more summer
sessions hosted at the world's greatest educational institutions, ISU will open
the doors on its first permanent campus during the International Space Year
1992. From this central campus, ISU will beam lectures and teleconferences to
advance students and researchers at daughter campuses around the world. The goal
of ISU is to become the first true space university at the dawn of the 21st
century with students and faculty actually studying and working in space.
I think the ISU concept, as well as other concepts like this, is the
absolute seedbed to spring new ideas in innovation into our total process. The
ISU is building international bridges. To move out into space is going to be
very, very expensive. And I think if we're going to do it seriously, we are
going to have to do it as an international endeavour. I think the ISU
plants the seeds of international cooperation and demonstrates the benefits to
its student body and that can only be to the good in the long run. Space is
going to invade all the areas of our being in the next 20 or 30 years and it's
in everybody's interest to make sure that it's there, it's free, it's
international and it's forward-looking. if I had any money, I would put it in.
Dozens of space organizations and sponsors have stepped forward to support the
ISU dream of a new worldwide network of young leaders who have the capabilities
and drive to push their nations and companies into leading roles as we enter the
21st century. These visionary sponsors see the International Space University as
the important investment that it is. By supporting an ISU student today, They
are creating a leader for tomorrow. As the people of Earth take their first
steps outward into the solar system, we are faced with a choice. Do we do it
alone or together? Will we carry on as we have for thousands of years, or do we
try something new? The students of the International Space University are ready
to accept the challenge of tomorrow now. Together, we can reach the stars.
[Music.]
[Silence.]
[Singing.]
[Music.]
[Static.]
[Applause.]
Ready?
Greetings to all you gathered for the first graduation ceremony of the
International Space University. I send especially warm wishes to my colleagues
at MIT, my old friend Roy Gibson, and the men behind the ISU. Peter Diamandis,
Todd Hawley, Bob Richards and their colleagues. I'm particularly pleased that I
can greet you while remaining comfortably at home on the other side of the
Earth. I never really expected the com sats would be so useful to me personally.
In fact, I never expected to see them in my lifetime. You are the first
representatives of a true space-faring species whose world is not bounded by the
confines of one planet. So let me share with you a passage I wrote back in 1969
for the history of the Apollo 11 mission, first on the moon. Half a billion
years ago, the moon summoned life out of its first home, the sea, and led it
onto the empty land. For as it drew the tides across the barren continents of
primeval Earth, their daily rhythm exposed to the sun and air the creatures of
the shadows. Most perished but some adapted to the new and hostile environment.
The conquest of the land had begun. We shall never know when this happened on
the shores of what vanished sea. There were no eyes or cameras to record the
event. Now the moon calls again and this time life responds with a roar that
shakes the sky. When a Saturn V soars spacewards on 4,000 tons of thrust, it
signifies more than a trance of technology. It opens the next chapter of
evolution. Well, that was written in 1969. And we're going to return to the
moon. But when we go there again, it will be in vehicles that will make the
Saturn V, for all its staggering complexity and its 150 million horsepower, look
like a clumsy, inefficient dinosaur of the early space age. And this time, we
will stay. Space travel is a technological mutation that really should not have
arrived until the 21st century. But thanks to the ambition and genius of men
like Wernher von Braun and Sergei Korolev and their influence upon such diverse
individuals as Kennedy and Khrushchev, the moon was reached half a century ahead
of time. And now you can take advantage of this historical accident, for as Isaac
Newton once remarked, you are standing on the shoulders of giants. The moon was
a fitting subject for our efforts during the first session of the ISU. Do not
lose the momentum of your work, or the intensity of your vision, whatever
obstacles you may encounter. As H. G. Wells once put it, the choice is universe
or nothing. The resources of that universe are, by all human standards,
infinite. There are no limits to growth among the stars. Unfortunately, there's
a tragic mismatch between our present needs and our capabilities. The conquest
of space will not arrive soon enough to save millions from leading starved and
stunted lives. Thus it is all the more urgent that we exploit to the utmost the
marvelous tools that space technology has already given us com sats,  Weather sats,
geo sats, Earth resources sats, and all the other sats yet to be invented. this is
a reason as I've said many times in the past that the third world needs space
technology even more urgently than the so-called developing world
you will find in the years to come that the experience which you have shared
with your fellow ISU students will have changed your life to work with friends
from a score of other nations will profoundly affect your world view and that
may well be the most important role of the ISU. As our terrestrial universities
once first flourished during the times of great exploration and discovery on our
own planet so the ISU is a response to the first exploration of space. The
blossoming of art and science during the Renaissance may now be repeated when
artists and poets join scientists and engineers at the new frontier as the
university begins its second year in Europe and later in other locations around
the globe I eagerly await its growth to a permanent full-time institution which
will train tomorrow's space professionals I would like to know the future that
you will help to create but that is a privilege to be reserved for your children
and grandchildren it is they who to quote H.G. Wells again shall stand upon this
earth as one stands upon a footstool and reach yet their hand among the stars I
wish you well for you represent a new evolutionary branch of humanity
Congratulations on your achievement and my very best wishes for your futures in
space Thank you and goodbye.
[Applause.]